= Project Status =

=== What's New in MatrixPilot 3.2 ===
  * Fixed support for new DIYDrones magnetometer.
  * Allow using spare analog inputs for voltage, current, rssi for use with the OSD.
  * New Ubuntu 10.04 HILSIM plugin; Updated the prebuilt HILSIM windows plugin.
  * Variometer improvements and total-energy calculation.
  * Improvements to flan, the Flight Analyzer.
  * Disabled wind gain adjustment when flying into the wind.
  * IMU velocity improvements (noticeably better in the OSD).
  * OSD responsiveness improvements (USE IMU instead of GPS course info).
  * Improved altitude hold's use of Min/Max alt.
  * Added compile-time testing of options.h settings to reduce config mistakes.
  * Cleaned up options.h a bit (removed CLOCK_CONFIG is the big one).
  * New options for board mounting orientation: YAWCW, YAWCCW.


=== What's New in MatrixPilot 3.1 ===
  * Major IMU improvements, including "dizzy-proofing", automatic inflight gyro calibration, and compensation for magnetometer latency.
  * Live camera tracking of one UDB from another.
  * User-configurable OSD layouts.
  * Full support for the DIYDrones MediaTek GPS.
  * Maintain minimum ground speed. The speed control loop is now based on the smaller of ground speed and air speed.
  * Improvements to inverted stabilization.
  * Improvements to the Flight Analyzer tool.
  * More bug fixes.


=== What's New in MatrixPilot 3.0 ===
  * Support for up to 8-channel PPM RC Input on a single pin, freeing up other pins for other features, including up to 9 RC outputs.  Compatible with [http://store.diydrones.com/product_p/br-ppme.htm this board from the DIYDrones store].
  * Added a new mission description language based on LOGO.
  * Allow sending waypoints (or UDB Logo instructions) mid flight over the telemetry channel (but no ground-station support yet).
  * Much improved Navigation, due to improvements in Dead Reckoning and wind estimation.
  * Altitude control now accounts for energy due to airspeed, and adjusts throttle and pitch to maintain the desired total energy.
  * Improved camera-targeting logic and precision.
  * Added an RTL Hold feature that keeps you in RTL mode once it's been triggered, until you flip your mode switch.  This helps avoid chaos if you're flying at the edge of your RC range.
  * Support for a still-experimental native On-Screen Display using [http://www.sparkfun.com/products/9168 this board from SparkFun].
  * Improved autonomous landing control.
  * Improved flight analysis tools.
  * Code restructuring into shared libraries makes building your own UDB-based projects much easier!


=== What's New in MatrixPilot 2.5 ===

  * IMU based "dead" reckoning.
  * Support for waypoints at absolute positions, relative to startup, or relative to a fixed location.
  * More configurable waypoints / flight patterns.
  * Stabilize inverted flight.
  * Stabilize vertical / hovering flight.
  * Beginnings of automatic landing.
  * Camera stabilization and targeting.
  * Support for automatic detection of, and adjustment for average wind speed and direction.
  * Support for using a magnetometer for yaw stabilization (using the I2C interface)
  * Improve robustness of waypoint following when losing the transmitter signal.
  * Hardware-In-the-Loop simulation using a UDB and X-Plane.


== What's New in MatrixPilot 2.0 ==

  * Combines the functionality of MatrixNav and AileronAssist into a single firmware.
  * Supports navigation using both ailerons and rudder.
  * Increases the number of Radio Input channels (from 4 to 5), and Servo Output channels (from 3 to 6).
  * Supports controlling Delta wing and VTail airframes, in addition to Standard airframes with or without ailerons.
  * More responsive to switching between Manual, Stabilized, and Waypoint modes.
  * Supports using the new uBlox GPS for faster navigation responses.
  * Super-basic camera stabilization code.
  * Add serial telemetry output in a variety of formats.
    * Supports telemetry output in our own UAV Dev Board format.
    * Supports telemetry output using an Ardupilot Ground Station compatible format.
    * Supports NMEA output to a Remzibi OSD.


== Future Roadmap ==

As with all long term plans, these could change at any time, but here's where we're thinking we'll go in the near future.


=== Future Ideas ===

  * Fully rotational based controls, using the complete theory proposed by Robert Mahoney.
  * Barometric pressure sensor for more precise altitude control.
  * Finish adding support for an upcoming new revision of the hardware platform.
  * Real Helicopter and quadcopter support.
  * ...